Mumbai

1.Marine Drive

Popularly referred to as the Queen’s Necklace, Marine Drive is a 4 km long promenade located in South Bombay. One of the most beautiful roads in Mumbai, a birds-eye view of this stretch looks magnificent at night with the lights making the entirety resemble a queen’s necklace. This beautiful place in Mumbai comes alive in the evenings when people relax and admire the brilliant view or take a walk on the promenade overlooking the Arabian Sea that is surprisingly therapeutic to the soul. Chai-wallas, chat-wallas are added bonuses to the place making it another must-visit tourist place as well as an important part of the Mumbai nightlife.

2.Gateway of India

One of the most distinguishing landmarks that signify the city, the Gateway of India came into existence in the year 1924 during the British Raj to celebrate the arrival of King George V and Queen Mary to Bombay. The structure marks the area as one of India’s major ports which formally symbolised elements of British grandeur. Located in the waterfront area of Apollo Bunder, today it is one of the most popular tourist places in Mumbai for people from all over the globe who flock just for a glance at this monument.

3.Juhu Beach

Juhu can be defined as one of the largest and most sought after beaches in India. It is a hot-spot for elite celebrity homes and film personality sightings located in the suburbs of the city making it one of the most eminent tourist places to visit in Mumbai. Visitors all over the country love the beach for it is also a gastronomic paradise hosting stalls that serve up platters of lip-smacking street food. The sandy delight is most crowded during weekends where people can get entertained by horse and donkey rides, dancing monkeys, toy sellers and other kinds of amusement.

4.Siddhivinayak Temple

A Hindu temple dedicated to the Lord Shri Ganesh is a standing testament to beauty and architecture. Constructed in 1801, the temple entertains thousands of devotees every single day. Even Bollywood celebrities, as well as other prominent figures, climb up to the temple to seek blessings and offer prayers to Lord Ganesha that is its magnetism. In all, the temple is definitely among the popular tourist places to visit in Mumbai.The Siddhivinayak Mandir evolved from a little place of worship to the Grand Temple that stands today in the later 50% of the twentieth century.

5.Haji Ali

A paramount religious site and one of the best places for sightseeing in Mumbai, Haji Ali is situated 500 yards from the shoreline in the middle of the Arabian Sea that houses the tomb of Muslim Saint Pir Haji Ali Shah Bukhari. This 400-year-old structure is not just marveled at for its intricate Indo-Islamic architecture; it is also a popular place of worship for people. Moreover, the local stalls outside the dynamic complex house some of the most delectable cuisines and specialties you can gorge on. It is a prominent stop on the Western line of the Mumbai local train hence making it easily accessible to the public.

