Goa

1.Calangute Beach

Known as the “Queen of Beaches” in Goa, Calangute Beach caters to all types of travellers, from nature lovers to adventure junkies to party freaks. Acting as a haven for nature lovers, in particular, this beach is the biggest and the most popular one in North Goa, boasting of scintillating charm as well as beauty. Furthermore, it reflects the uniqueness that the culture of Goa generally has, in addition to offering beautiful and scenic views of the surrounding landscapes, which act as the perfect getaway destination for anyone who wishes to seek respite from the hustle and bustle of the busy city limits.

2.Fort Aguada

Another heritage from the Portuguese, Fort Aguada has been standing stern on the beach facing the Arabian Sea from 1612 when it was built in order to provide defence against the invading Dutch and the Marathas. It was a grand old fort in its time with the capacity to hold 79 cannons among other weapons of defense. It was one of the prized possessions of the Portuguese. Today, it stands as famous Goa sightseeing places dividing the Sinquerium Beach and Candolim Beach. It makes the perfect resting point during your tour of the beaches in North Goa.

3.Dudhsagar Waterfalls

The Dudhsagar Waterfalls are situated on the Goa-Karnataka border and are one of India’s must-see sights. The four-tiered waterfall structure is one of the tallest in India and is located on the Mandovi River. The white water cascades down from a height of nearly 1017 feet off a nearly steep mountain face. They form a part of the Bhagwan Mahaveer Sanctuary and Mollem National Park, so the best way to reach them is by entering the national park and taking a van allocated by the park to the falls. They are best experienced during the monsoons as they lose their force during the dry season.

4.Grand Island

There is no dearth of water related activities in Goa, of course. But while the different beaches up and down Goa offer tourists many options, these options are not to be found all in one place. Not so in grand island. Grand Island is the nirvana of Goan water-sports. There is a lot to be experienced here from diving to snorkelling to fishing. Scuba diving in Goa is the most popular activity because it offers so much in terms of underwater exploration. Professional instructors will provide the equipment and the instructions. Bumper boats and banana boats are also popular around the island.

5.Baga Beach

Baga is a famous beach destination in North Goa that attracts thousands of tourists and watersports lovers to its heart.  The beach shares its coastal line from the environs of Sinquerim, Candolim, and Baga, with the Baga shore being more lively and enticing. This bubbly beach is one of the best in Goa that stays awake the whole night. Called as "The Hometown of Nightlife," Baga beach is reputed for its cranky music celebrations by late-night, mouth-watering food, designer shops, and adventure sports.

