Jaipur

1.Amber Fort and Palace

Located amidst the picturesque and rocky Aravalli Hills, Amber Palace is a not-to-be-missed place to in Jaipur. The beguiling beauty of the red sandstone and white marble adds to the 
magnificence. While the high formidable walls defended its residents from enemy attacks, the main building of the citadel served its people with all the luxuries and amenities.The scenic 
backdrop of the Maota Lake and panoramic views of sunrise and sunset contribute to the eternal beauty of this palace. Intricate wall paintings, frescos and the use of precious gems and 
jewels in these paintings add to its timeless beauty.

2.Nahargarh Fort

To get a panoramic view of Jaipur city, Nahargarh Fort is the ideal place to visit. Built by Jai Singh II, Nahargarh Fort was originally named Sudarshangarh and was later renamed as 
Nahargarh or the Abode of Tigers. The then Maharaja of Jaipur constructed this fort in order to tighten the security of the region. It also served as a safety shelter to the British wives 
during the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857. Located on the rocky ridge of Aravalli Hills, Nahargarh Fort offers the most striking view of Jaipur’s scenic landscape. During the night, when the entire 
Jaipur city gets lit up, Nahargarh Fort offers the most sparkling view of the entire city.

3.Hawa Mahal

Hawa Mahal or Palace of the Winds, or also called Palace of the Breeze, is one of the important places to visit in Jaipur. Hawa Mahal is a five-storey extension in the form of a honeycomb. 
This unique building has 953 small windows, called jharokhas, decorated with intricate latticework. Even though this palace was built during ancient times, it reflects the scientific 
vision of Maharaja Sawai Pratap Singh in a distinct way. The windows of this palace have been designed in such a way that irrespective of the time or season of the year, cool breeze 
always persists inside the palace. Due to this reason, Hawa Mahal was the favourite summer holiday place to visit in Jaipur.

4.Jal Mahal

It was during the Rajput era that India has seen some of the glorious forts and palaces. Jal Mahal or the Water Palace is one of the classic names in the list of Rajputana architecture.
Located in the middle of the Man Sagar Lake, this palace is also a fusion of Mughal and Rajput styles of architecture. Built in red sandstone, Jal Mahal is a five-storey building, of which
four storeys remain underwater when the lake is filled. This, in turn, offers a breathtaking view of the palace and makes it one of the important Jaipur tourist places so if you are in 
Jaipur, Jal Mahal is one of the must-visit places in the tour list.

5.Jantar Mantar

Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh, the ruler of Jaipur was one of the best theorists of ancient India. After achieving the milestones of constructing the planned city Jaipur, as well as several 
other scientific and architectural epitomes, the Maharaja built five astronomical instruments to study space. These instruments were called Jantar Mantar, which means Calculating 
Instrument. The largest of these instruments is located in Jaipur and has been declared as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.Jantar Mantar consists of fourteen geometric devices that measure 
time, predict eclipses, track the location of stars and the Earth’s movement around the sun.
