Agra

1.Taj Mahal

One of the seven wonders of the world, the Taj Mahal stands tall at the south bank of the river Yamuna in Agra. Taj Mahal or the “icon of love” is one of the best places to visit in Agra 
and the most popular tourist destinations in India. It is also considered to be an epitome of the Mughal Architecture. The ivory-white marble mausoleum was built by Shah Jahan for his 
favorite wife Mumtaz. The monument is now where the tombs of the king and queen lie. Taj Mahal has also been designated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site for being a masterpiece recognized 
all across the world. Take a walk inside the Taj Mahal and you will feel as if you’rewalking through history.

2.Agra Fort

An architectural masterpiece, The Red Fort of Agra or Agra Fort was built by Emperor Akbar in 1573. It is located on the right bank of the River Yamuna and is made entirely of red 
sandstone. The historical fort was once the ersthwhile residence of the Mughals until 1638. One of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites, it lies 2.5 kilometres from Taj Mahal. Agra Fort is a 
symbol of Agra and is so massive that it is often referred to as a walled city. It is the perfect example of Mughal art and architecture, built purely out of red sandstone. Within the 
premises of Agra Fort lie the most exquisite structures like the Pearl Mosque, Diwan-i I Khas, Diwan-i I Aam, Moti Masjid and Jahangiri Mahal.

3.Fatehpur Sikri

Fatehpur Sikri, a town in Agra district was once the capital of the Mughal empire. The town was built and established by Akbar and later abandoned in 1610. Like all the other tourist 
places in Agra, this was also entirely built with red sandstone. The town has several significant parts to explore. The first thing that one comes across in this town is the enormous 
Buland Darwaza which is 54 meters in height which is sure to leave you awestruck. The surreal interiors of the town are a visual treat to the eyes and are sure to leave you spellbound.

4.Akbar's Tomb

Akbar’s Tomb was built by Jahangir in 1613. If you’re a history buff, this is one of the best places to visit in Agra for you. The tomb is built in red sandstone and holds some of the most
stunning marble designs. As you walk into the building, you’ll find exquisite marble designs on the ceilings and mystical calligraphy towards the real underground tomb of Akbar.
The biggest gate around the tomb is the south gate where you will see intricate white marble designs on the panels. The real tomb of Akbar is in a small underground room which has a very 
transcendent feel to it.

5.Gurudwara Guru Ka Taal

Gurudwara Guru Ka Taal is not as well known as the other places to see in Agra but is worth visiting. The gurdwara is dedicated to the ninth guru of Sikhs who is Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji.
The place where it is built is where Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji voluntarily offered his arrest to Aurangzeb. At the time the place served as a reservoir of rainwater which was used for 
irrigation purposes. Later, it was constructed into a gurudwara with the beautiful architecture of red sandstone at some places and marble at most.