Jodhpur 

1.Mehrangarh Fort

Undoubtedly, Mehrangarh Fort is the best tourist places in Jodhpur city, as it is the most explored one by the tourists that visit Jodhpur. It hence tops the list of places to see in Jodhpur. This royal abode, earlier was one of the most majestic palaces in this city and is now turned into a museum that depicts the rich culture and heritage of Jodhpur. It is one among the largest forts in the country and accommodates several mahals within it. The fort is symbolic of the glorious princely era of Rajasthan and rich culture of Jodhpur city. This tourist destination, hence is one of the major attractions in the city of Jodhpur. 

2.Umaid Bhavan Palace

Umaid Bhavan Palace is one of the last constructed places in India. It is hence also popular for it designs and architecture, which is of great attraction to the tourists of Jodhpur. Located within the city premises, this palace is a mirror to the princely era of Jodhpur. Currently, Umaid Bhavan Palace is divided into three areas, one of which is still owned by the royal family of Jodhpur city. Watching the details of this master piece is the best thing to do here. This place should hence definitely qualify to every tourist’s list of places to visit in Jodhpur. 

3.Ghanta Ghar

Ghanta Ghar, also known as the clock tower is an important and most popular landmark in the Blue City or Sun City of India. Jodhpur places to visit cannot finish without ticking off this mighty landmark located just next to Sardar Market within the city premises. The tall colossal tower was built by Maharaja Sardar Singh during his rule between 1880 and 1911. This place then turned out to become the most popular landmark in the city. The close proximity to one of the famous markets in Jodhpur, adds to the tourist value of this place.

4.Bishnoi Village

It is a small Village near the Jodhpur city of Rajasthan state known for its cultural activities. It’s truly a popular tourist spot where one can take the fun of Camel Trek, Desert Excursion, Cane spotting, Village walk and much more. Art and Handicraft with other artistic activities is the main reason why one should pay a visit to this wonderful destination. A nature lover who loves to explore various aspects of natural beauty will come across some finest glimpse of a remarkable cultural life of Marwar- the real community of Rajasthan. There is no reason for a tourist who visits this part of the world to skip a tour to such wonderful rich and cultural heritage of India.

5.Jaswant Thada

Considered to be one among the many brilliant architectural landmarks in the city of Jodhpur, Jaswant Thada is located next to the mighty Mehrangarh Fort. The location of Jaswant Thada itself is a well-equipped tourist spot as it gives a bigger and better picture of the mighty Mehrangarh fort. Among the many Jodhpur tourist places that are known for being artistic wonders, Jaswant Thada is one of its kind. It is a cenotaph or an empty commemorative tomb built in the honour of Maharaja Jaswant Singh. Jaswant Thada is embedded with beautiful outlook and picturesque view of the mighty majestic Mehrangarh Fort. This makes the place an easy and relaxing abode for visitors of Jodhpur to tick off.