Mysore

1.Mysore Palace

The second most famous attraction in India, first being the Taj Mahal, Mysore Palace is easily one of the most imposing architectural buildings in the country. It is amazing that the palace was only built in the 20th century and is the fourth structure to be constructed on the same location. Also known as Amba Vilas Palace, it is one of the seven palaces in the City of Palaces. Often mistaken for a Gothic structure, the Palace is, in fact, an exemplary showcase of Indo-Saracenic architecture with a blend of Gothic, Rajput, Hindu and Muslim styles and it is one of the famous places to visit in Mysore.

2.Brindavan Gardens

The Brindavan Gardens, spread over 60 acres, is located at a distance of 21 km away from Mysore. Built across the notable river of India, Cauvery, it took around five years to complete the project. The well-synchronised fountain show with music, boating and well-manicured grass with flowerbeds are some of the top experiences of Brindavan Garden. Constructed in 1932 by the Diwan of Mysore, Sir Mirza Ismail, Brindavan Garden is visited by millions of tourists every year. Divided into two parts, north and south, boating facility offered by the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation which connects the two parts along with a walkway bridge.

3.Mysore Zoo

Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens, also known as the Mysore Zoo is one of the best zoological gardens in India. Maharaja Chamaraja Wodeyar established this Zoo in the year 1892 for the Royals. The Zoo's meticulous planning is responsible for making it a special zoological garden. It tends to create a natural habitat for the animals in it. From Big to small cats, Aquatic to terrestrial birds, and Primates to reptiles, one Hundred and Sixty-Eight species find their place in this zoo. The world's first caesarian section delivery performed on an elephant in Mysore zoo gave it global fame and recognition.

4.Somanathapura Temple

On the banks of Holy river Kaveri is a tiny tranquil town of Somanathapura. Here stands the finest and most exemplary monument of Hoysala architecture known as the famous Prasanna Chennakesava Temple or simply the Kesava Temple. Consecrated in the year 1258 CE, it is a Vaishnav Hindu Temple dedicated to might and beauty of Lord Krishna (Chenna= Beautiful and Kesava= Krishna). Tourists from near and far come to visit the temple to get a view of the beautiful place. The Chennakesava temple is one of the 1500 Temples built by the Hoysala Empire kings in different parts of their kingdom, and is said to be the climax development in Hoysala temple style and yet is unique in many other ways.

5.Shuka Vana

Home to over 2000 birds, the Shuka Vana in Mysore is a must visit for ornithophiles and nature lovers. With over 450 varied species, this striking 50m high aviary spanning an area of 1 acre currently holds the record for most bird species in an aviary in the Guinness Book of World Records. This unique park, commonly known as parrot park, is a part of the Avadhoota Datta Peetham in the Sri Ganapathi Sachidananda Ashram, and also serves as a rehabilitation centre for abused, injured and abandoned birds. One can find many rare species of parrots flying around this beautiful enclosure.