Delhi

1.India Gate

India Gate is an important site to visit when on your tour to Delhi. India Gate has its original name as All India War Memorial that was 
built in order to commemorate the 82000 soldiers of the Indian Army who lost their lives during the First World War happened from 1914 to 
1921 as well as in the Third Anglo-Afghan War. The war memorial is situated at Rajpath where you can reach by getting down at Barakhamba 
Road Metro station in Delhi. India gate is also known to be one of the best places to visit with friends in Delhi.

2.Qutub Minar

A valuable, protected structure of India is Qutub Minar, Delhi which has been considered to be a highly important historical attraction 
existing currently in India. It is a part of the Qutub Complex which was declared as a UNESCO World Heritage Site and it is also one of the
famous places to visit in north Delhi. The structure is situated in the Mehrauli area of Delhi. Qutub Minar Metro Station located at a 
distance of about 3km will be the easiest access to reach the amazing architectural brilliance. You can also book Delhi tour package as 
here is no end to the glorious history being explored in the present. 

3.Red Fort

A brilliant architectural beauty is a historical fort in Delhi, Red Fort which was the main residence of the emperors of the Mughal 
Dynasty for more than 200 years. The Mughal families lived there until 1857. A golden feather in the crown of Delhi is the fort and it 
houses several museums in it. Though it was the house of the Mughal emperors, it was also the political and cultural center of the Mughal 
state and this was the place where a lot of significant events happened. It is the best place to visit in Old Delhi as it is also known to
be a symbol of India's struggle for freedom.

4.Bahai (Lotus) Temple

The Lotus Temple is among the famous tourist places in Delhi and a major landmark of India that has been attracting tourists from all over
the world because of its architecture and beauty. The construction of the temple was finished in 1986. It resembles the lotus flower but 
created in white colour. The Lotus Temple is open to all people, regardless of region and caste. The structure is built of 27 free-standing 
marble clad petals in clusters of three to form nine sides. The Lotus Temple is one of the best places to visit if you are planning to 
spend a day in Delhi.

5.Rashtrapati Bhawan

The Presidential Residence, formerly known as the Viceroy’s House is the famous Rashtrapathi Bhavan in Delhi. It is the home of the 
President of India, officially. It is located at the western end of Rajpath. The mansion or the main building accommodates the president’s 
official residence, halls, guest rooms and offices. The entire 130 hectare President Estate that includes huge gardens known as the Mughal 
Gardens, large open spaces, a residence of office staff and bodyguards, stables etc is the major portion of it the mansion.
